The Joe Rogan experience. So, um, I want it to, uh,
to meet the, uh, I'll start in Maryland, where I live.
I want to start with the clan leader from Maryland.
You could have several different clan groups in the same state and they are
rivals with each other.
And you can have chapters of those same fandoms within your state.
So this guy named Roger Kelly was the grand dragon for the state of
Maryland for this guys clan group.
And Roger Kelly at the time had the largest Klan group in Maryland.
How many members.
They don't give out numbers, but, uh, Roger had probably just over 200,
which is a very high number for that time period.
Um, sometimes it's only, they only have 10 members, some, you know,
to have an internet presence, but only one guy that's sitting in his basement,
you know, putting out something. But, uh, anyway, this guy didn't,
I want him to introduce me to Roger Kelly. I want,
I want Roger to be my first interview. And he was terrified. He said, no,
I can't do it, Darryl. We both get in trouble. I said,
but you're not in the plan anymore. Is it doesn't matter?
I can not take a black man to the grand dragon.
So he was concerned genuinely from my safety as well as his own.
And I said, well, look,
why don't you give me Mr. Kelly's address and phone number. And, um,
I will go to his house and talk to him. He would not do that.
I begged and pleaded for 20 minutes.
He finally gave me Mr. Kelly's address and phone number on the condition
that I not tell Mr. Kelly, where I got it. And I said, okay, then he warned me.
He said, Darrell.
Well, that guy could crack under pressure. Yeah. Oh yeah. A lot.
Of them. Oh, I wanted to tell you why, why he got banished. Okay.
But that's coming, that's coming later. He warned you. Yeah. He warned me.
And he said, Darryl, do not do that little ride to Kelly's house.
He'll kill you. And then he said, there's a bar up in Thurmont, Maryland.
Now, you know, Thurmont, Maryland. Uh, you don't know it for the clan,
but that was one of their headquarters, you know, Thurmont, Maryland,
because it's also the home of camp, David, the presidential retreat and,
and the headquarters for the class right there, right down the road.
That's hilarious. Yeah. And Thermo at the time was an all white town.
Anytime a black person moved in or interracial couple or a gay couple,
somehow mysteriously across will be burned in the yard and boom,
they move right out. Now. That is not,
that does not mean that every person in Vermont is in the clamp because they're
not in fact, most white people up there wanted the clan gone,
but that's where it was headquartered. So, um,
he said there was a bar up there where they hang out every Saturday night.
And if I go to that bar, I'm sure to find Roger Kelly and, um,
you know, unless you're out of town rallying somewhere, he says,
but I don't guarantee you that Roger will even talk to you,
but you're safer to approach them in a public place.
Then I'm going to his property.
Did he give you a photograph of him? How'd you find know? No, I.
Knew Roger Kelly looked like, cause he was always in the newspaper on the news,
you know, being interviewed, something like that. I never met him, but I knew,
you know, his image. So he drew me a little map, how to get to this place.
And so it's on Saturday night, we turned that thing off and um, he,
uh, he says, um.
Uh, do not, um.
Do not, you know, approach on his own property. I said, all right. So
I, you know, I'm a musician I'm working Saturday nights. I can't go, you know,
go chasing the Klan on Saturday nights. So to hobby. Yeah.
So at that point it wasn't as a full-time profession. Um,
I called my secretary who books, my band. I said, you know,
do I have any Sundays off? I figured Sunday is still part of the weekend.
Maybe hangs out there on a Sunday too. She said,
she found me a couple of Sundays. And I said, okay,
I'm going to go find this Roger Kelly Guy. She goes, well,
I want to go with you now. Here's the problem. She's white.
Not that I have a problem with that.
But a black man with a white woman walking into a clan bar.
Could be more of a.
You might find them sooner than you want. So, um, I said, I said, you know,
Mary? And she said, no, no, I want to go. I said, all right, you know,
you go at your own risk. She said, all right. So we drove up there,
this particular, Sunday evenings, about an hour and a half from my house.
And my guy gave me perfect directions. There's the place right there. Boom.
We locked the car, walk up these steps. And I told her, I said, look,
I'm going to walk in first. You, you walked right in behind me.
If I turn around and face, you start running and I'll be behind you.
And she says, all right, let's go.
So we walk in about seven 30 on a Sunday evening place
was practically empty.
I would say maybe no more than six or seven people in there.
A couple of guys in the back playing pool, a guy or two sitting at the bar.
And the guy had told me that this was a clan bar.
And what he meant by clan bar is the plant doesn't own it.
That's where they hang out and he'd, he described it to me.
Then when you walk in the door to your left would be a row of booths.
And the first two booths closest to the door when you come in,
are reserved for the clan. So, uh,
I looked over there and nobody was sitting there. So I'm looking around,
see if I recognize Roger Kelly. And I didn't see anybody that looked like him,
which did not mean that some of these people weren't clan. Um,
but I figured out what, and to my right was a, um,
a long bar behind the bar was a mirror and scotch taped to the
mirror was a picture,
an article from the Washington post newspaper had a picture of Roger Kelly.
They'd interviewed him about something. He,
the NAACP was suing them over some kind of cross burning ceremony or
something. And I recognize the article. I said, wow. Yeah.
And there's a big Confederate flag on the back wall.
Like you have the U S flag right there. Um,
so I knew I was in the right place or the wrong place,
but now you want to look at it. Right? So, uh,
I didn't see anybody who looked like Roger Kelly. I figured, no,
I drove an hour and a half to get up here. You know,
I don't want to go home empty handed,
but I didn't want to just walk up to somebody and say, Hey, excuse me, sir,
are you in the clan? So I said, you know,
Mary and I are standing in the middle of this bar,
basically looking stupid and not knowing what to do. So I said, come on, Mary,
let's go over there and sit. And one of those first two booths,
because if the plan is in here,
they will come to us and then we'll know, and then we can ask them, Hey,
you know, we want to see Roger Kelly. So we went over there and sat down.
Nobody bothered us. Everything was cool. Eventually we migrated over to the bar.
I chatted up the guy sitting next to me, like I was lost in some directions.
Very nice gave me directions. We failed. So we left.
Um, the next morning, Mary walked out of my house.
I gave her a Roger Kelly's number Monday morning. I said, give him a call.
I said,
tell him that you're working for somebody who's writing a book on the clan.
Would he consent to sitting down with your boss and give him an interview?
However, do not tell Mr. Kelly that I'm black.
If he asks, you know, don't lie to him, but don't allude to it.
Don't give him reason to be curious. She understood. And the reason why,
um, I did not want him to know that was a,
I figured, you know, if he knew that, um, he meant I gave you the interview,
but if you agree to do the interview,
then obviously he would see that I'm black. When he,
when he meets me and he could decide right then and there,
if he wants to continue it or not. But I want him to see me first. And secondly,
um, if he agreed to do the interview, knowing that I was black,
he may have different answers prepared in the interim than he would have for a
white interviewer, as opposed to a black interviewer.
So I want it to be spontaneous, candid.
So she understood and that she called him and he agreed to do the interview.
So we set it up for the motel above the silver dollar lounge up
there in Frederick, Maryland at five 15 on a Sunday afternoon. And, uh,
Mary and I got there, oh man, I don't know, several hours early.
Um, I gave her some money,
sent her down the hall to get us a soda pop out of the machine,
put it in the ice bucket, fill it with ice, get it all cold. Uh, so I, you know,
I could, I could offer, um, Mr. Kelly, a beverage, a cold beverage.
I had no idea what this man would do once he laid eyes on me and saw that I was
black, we come in the room. Would he attack me? Or would he walk away?
You know? But in the event I want to be hospitable. So she got the soda pop,
put ice buckets set on the dresser. Now
just by happenstance, the way the room is laid out.
If you are standing in the hallway, in the doorway of the room,
looking into the room, you can not see who's in the room.
You have to literally walk in the door and turn to your right.
And the room was laid out back there.
So there's no way you can know who's in the room, standing in the hallway.
And so I took advantage of that.
I took the lamp table to the lamp off and put it in the most obscure corner of
the room.
I put a chair on one side for me and a chair on the other side for Mr. Kelly.
And I had a little bag beside me like duffel bag. And in my bag,
I had a cassette recorder, blank cassette tapes,
and a copy of the Bible because the two Klux Klan claims to be a
Christian organization.
And they claim that the Bible preaches racial separation.
Now I've read through the Bible. I've never seen that in there.
So I want to be able to pull up my Bible when he brings it up and say here,
Mr. Kelly, show me please in this king James version,
chapter and verse where it says blacks and whites must
be separate. So I'm all prepared, right? Right on time at five 15,
knock on the door.
I'm seated there where you can't see me until you come in the room,
Mary hops up. And by the way, Mary's white. And, uh, as I,
as I mentioned before, so she goes around the corner,
opens the door and walks.
What is known as the grand Nighthawk Nighthawk in clan terminology means
body guard security. So a grand night Hawk, good names.
The names is so ridiculous. Cyclops is treads and wizards. It goes on and on.
It goes on. Of course, a grand club.
Ran clubby by all kinds of stuff. Anyway.
So the grand Knight Hawk, which means slightly guarded the grand dragon,
like an Imperial Nighthawk,
be the bodyguard to the Imperial wizard in walks into this grand Nighthawk.
He's wearing military camouflage. And, uh,
on one side of his chest is that clan emblem that red circled white cross blood
drop on the other side are the initials,
KKK and embroidered on his Beretta said Knights of the KU Klux Klan.
And on his hip, he had a semiautomatic handgun and a holster.
He comes in and Mr. Kelly is walking directly behind him and a
dark blue suit and tie.
And when the Nighthawk turned the corner and saw me, he just froze.
And Mr. Kelly did not realize that his Nighthawk had stopped short and he
slammed into his back and knocked him forward. And so they're stumbling around,
regaining their balance and looking all around the room and I'm just watching
them. And I could see the apprehension in their faces. You know,
I could read it, you know, they,
they thinking did the desperate give us the right room number, you know,
or it was just an ambush and what's going on here.
So I stood up and I displayed the palms of my hands as,
as to say a I'm unarmed. And I walked forward,
I stuck up my right hand. I said, hi, Mr. Kelly, I'm Daryl D.
And he shook my hand. He, because my hand and the Nighthawk shook my hand.
So, so far so good. I'm doing, I'm doing well. I said, come on in,
come on and have a seat, please. Mr. Kelly sat down even better.
And the Nighthawks stood at attention then Mr. Kelly's. Right?
So I'm going to sit down opposite of them. Right. And Mr. Kelly says to me,
Mr. Davis, do you have any form of identification? I said, sure.
I produced my wallet. And I handed him my driver's license.
And he goes, oh, you live on such and such street in silver spring.
Now beside me a little concerned, why is this man? Really?
My street address, all he has to do is look at my name and looked at my picture,
match it up to me and give me back my license here. He is.
I'm looking at my address. Is he going to come burn across my lawn? What's up.
So I did not want to let him know that he had, you know,
unnerved me a little bit,
but I wanted to let him know under no circumstances are you to come to my house,
uninvited within a, you know, nefarious intentions.
So I said to him, I said, yes, Mr. Kelly, that is where I live.
And you live at. And I named his house number and his street, you know, that,
that the former guy had given me that way. I was implying, Hey, you know,
you know where I live, I know where you live. If you come visit me,
I'm going to come visit you. So there were so, you know,
we're going to confine all this visiting to this motel room. So he smiled.
He nodded his head like he understood.
And I did not find out that day.
It was several months down the road that I had been presumptuous.
I had no reason to fear Mr. Kelly coming to my house to do anything stupid.
What had happened was one of his clan members lived right
down the road from me. I didn't know that.
And Mr. Kelly would have to travel down my,
my street to get into that neighborhood where this plan member lived.
He simply recognized the name of the street. That was it, pure Cohen.
So he wasn't trying to threaten no, not at all, not at all. So, um,
you know,
and today that same plan member is in a federal prison who he'll be there for a
long time. He would later commit a hate crime,
which landed him to the federal penitentiary. So, um, anyway,
we got on with his interview and, um,
within 10 minutes, uh, Mr. Kelly,
let me know why he would hate people like me. Uh,
black people are inferior. Uh, we are prone to crime there. Uh,
we were criminals. That is why there are more blacks in prison than whites.
Now that's a half truth. Um,
there are indeed more blacks in prison than white people is not because we
prone to crime. Like you said,
it's because of inequity in our judicial system where whites in the same
predicament, uh,
either don't get the same jail time or don't go to jail or whatever. Um, anyway,
so I'm a criminal. I also said that black people are lazy. Uh,
we don't want to work while we prefer to scan the government welfare system.
We're looking for handouts and freebies and all that, where white people,
you know, you know, they, they work et cetera. Um,
and also this book called the bell curve had just recently come out
and, uh, you know, the one that was very controversial. Exactly.
So, you know, he had, he had jumped on that and he said, well, you know,
it's a known fact, you know, they say the world's biggest authorities. They,
you know, you never see who they is, right. They say, um, that, uh, you know,
black people have, have smaller brains than white people.
And that's why their IQ is not as high. So I guess the bigger the brain,
the more intelligent you are. So now I'm sitting there listening to this guy,
tell me that I'm a criminal and I'm lazy and on welfare.
And my brain is smaller than his.
What he was saying was indeed offensive.
But here's the difference between me and most other people.
I did not take offense to it. I tell you why I got to take offense to it.
Why should I be offended by somebody who knows nothing about me?
He only met me 10 minutes ago.
He sees the color of my skin and has made this assessment.
So why should I take offense to somebody who's telling a lie?
I just let them roll on with it.
She developed this kind of clarity.
It's very unusual to not be offended when someone's judging you
instantly and saying disparaging things about everyone that looks anything like
you just right off the cuff freely, right in front of you,
how did you develop this clarity to just not be offended by that?
Because it didn't make sense what he was saying. Of course. So I figured,
you know, how could I be offended by somebody who's, who's all twisted. Right?
You know, who, who, who obviously doesn't have the,
the foresight to see that he's wrong. I want to learn more about this,
which is coming from right. And so now see,
that's what usually stops a conversation. And then,
and then people get into combat. Yes. You know, and then it goes nowhere.
So I was not offended by it. So then roll on with it. And then when he finished,
you know, and he was, he was proud of him, you know,
explained to me why the stance I, so, you know, when Mr. Kelly, I mean,
you know, I'm, I'm gonna be straight up with you.
I don't have a criminal record. I have been on welfare.
I've never measured my brain,
but I'm sure it's the same size as anybody else's and he's whatever.
And we go on, well,
every now and then the cassette would run out of tape. Right.
And I'd reach down into my bag and pulled out a fresh cassette.
Or Mr. Kelly would pound the table. Mr. Davis, the Bible says, I reach down,
pull up the Bible.
Every time I'd reached down like this to get the Bible or the cassette out of
the bag,
the Nighthawk would reach up onto his hip right
now. That was cool. I mean, I got that. That's his job.
His job is to protect his boss. He has no idea. What's in my bag.
That's a little distracting though. Isn't it? Well, yeah.
But, you know, I realized that these people are afraid of me. Right.
Okay. So, you know, I had to be cool. I'm not afraid of them. Right.
So I have to be cool, but, uh, but be transparent. All right. So, you know,
he's doing his job and just like, you know, when, um, when you get put, well,
you know,
maybe you don't get pulled over as much as I do right by the cops at night, but,
you know, I can tell you right now, you know, when, when, uh,
when you get pulled over and, uh,
and a cop tells you to get your license or whatever,
and you it's in the glove is in the glove box and you reach,
he gets a little more tighter on his hand, he's protecting himself.
So Nighthawk was doing that. And I got that. So, um,
know this kept happening. And, um,
after a while he realized there was no threat in the bag.
And I went in and out of the bag and I docked didn't move.
He was relaxed just over an hour into this interview,
there was a sudden, a very quick, I mean,
less than a second noise in the room, which at that, that was it.
And it happened so fast out of nowhere that my ear could not
discern what it was.
I just came out of the blue and I'm studying inclusive than you and I are right
now because the table was smaller to Mr. Kelly and the Nighthawk was
here and it was close right there. And I flew up out of my chair,
hit the table, um,
because my ear could not discern what the noise was.
I perceived it to be an ominous threatening noise.
Um, and I knew, I knew for a fact that Mr.
Kelly had made this noise, where did it come from? Why did he make it? Um,
and how did I know that he made it? I knew that because I didn't make it. So,
you know, you know, if you, if you don't want to accept responsibility or,
you know, you're not responsible, what do you do? You assign blame. Right. And,
um, so I flew out of my chair.
I hit the table and my mind was racing.
What did I just do?
What did I just to cause Mr. Kelly to go off and make some threatening
noise? You know, I instantly put everything in perspective. We're enemies.
He's the head of the clan. I'm a black guy. And now, you know, and then I,
I heard that former Klansmen's voice in my head, Darryl,
do not fool with Roger Kelly. He will kill you. So I didn't want to die.
And in that split, second,
I have gone into a survival mode.
And when you fear for your life, that's what you do. What was the noise?
I'm going to tell you in a cell. Yeah, it was just, that was it. And, um,
because it was unexpected and it was so short and I couldn't discern it. Uh,
you know, I went into, into self-protect mode and, um,
I can hit the table. Well, when you fear for your life, as I said, you know,
you go into survival mode and in survival mode, you know, you're only,
you can only do like one of four things. Some people they just pass out,
they think because the fear is so great.
Their brain cannot process it and it shuts down and they pass out, uh,
other people there,
their muscles contract and they get tense and they can't move and you can be
punching them, kicking them.
And they won't even be deflecting the blows they're, they're all constricted.
That's called paralysis by fear that you're too afraid to move.
The third thing people will do is to run away from whatever the fear is.
And that is your best option.
When something scares you that bad take off separate yourself as quickly as you
can, from that fear put as much distance between you and the fear as you can.
And that would have been my choice. Had it been an option,
but it was not an option for me because you cannot outrun a bullet in a motel
room. Right. So I was not armed.
My secretary was not armed. The only person who I knew for sure,
who was armed was the Nighthawk. You know, you could see his gun right there.
And I didn't know if, uh,
if Mr. Kelly had a weapon up under his suit jacket or not.
All I knew was I don't want to die today.
So I chose the fourth option, which was to do a preemptive strike.
You get them before they get you. So when I flew out of my chair,
I was on a dive across the table.
I was going to grab Mr. Kelly grabbed the night off and slammed them down to the
ground and take away the night Hawks gun. Whoa. No,
it was going to happen back quickly. Okay. I think pretty fast,
sometimes a little too fast, but I'm glad I hit the table.
Cause I'm looking right into his eyes trying to figure out, like,
what did you do? I didn't say one word to this guy,
but my eyes had locked with his eyes. It was like, I just see right through him.
And I let my eyes do the talking. I knew he could hear my eyes. Um,
my eyes was shouting at him saying, what did you just do? Well,
his eyes had fixated on my eyes. He didn't say a word either,
but I could read his, his eyes are saying to me, what did you just do?
And then Nighthawk had his hand on his gun looking at both of us.
Like what either one of y'all just do.
Mary was sitting to my left on top of the dresser because there were no more
chairs.
And she realized what had happened as she began explaining it to us when it
happened again, the ice and the ice bucket. Have you gone to melt? Oh Jesus.
And the cans shifted down the ice?
No, that was it. So the tension was so thick,
the ice in the bucket, wasn't just like a normal,
like if there was ice in the bucket right now, it'd be like, oh,
it's just noise. Yeah. You were just on edge.
Absolutely. Absolutely.
And the cancer just fallen down and you'd been talking for an hour. Yeah. Yeah.
And they've been sitting there before Mr. Kelly came in. Okay.
And we'd forgotten about it.
I offered him a drink when he first got there and he said, no, but, um.
So we're going to get to, it was like, so you're,
you're talking to him for an hour and in that hour is detention.
Detention is not being alleviated at all. He's explaining everything to you.
He's telling you his theories,
you're being very calm and just letting him speak. Yeah.
But you are still so on edge, just being across from this guy that,
that sound right.
Right. Because it came out of nowhere, you know,
it came out of nowhere and um, I mean, yeah. You know, the detention had had,
uh, had deescalated, all that kind of stuff as we got more into the hour.
Um, but I think, you know, we each were aware, you know,
this is not a normal situation in a black kind of clan leader. Um,
so you know, each, each one was still a little wary of the other kind of thing.
Right. Um, but we, we were mutually respectful.
Okay. So then, um, it happened again and, you know,
we began laughing.
We began laughing all of us at how ignorant we had all been.
I won't say that this was a learning moment, but it was a teaching moment.
And the learning would come later. The, um, the,
what, what was taught was this all because
some foreign and underscore highlight,
circled the word foreign entity of which we were ignorant.
That being the bucket of ice cans of soda entered into our little comfort
zone via the noise that it made.
We became fearful and accusatory of each other.
So the lesson taught is ignorance, breeds, fear. We fear those things.
We don't understand. All right.
If you do not keep that fear in check that fear in
turn will escalate and breed hatred
because we hate those things that frightened us.
If you don't check that hatred,
it in turn will escalate and breed destruction.
We want to destroy those things that we hate. Why? Because they frighten us.
But guess what? They may have been harmless. And we were just ignorant.
And we saw the whole chain unravel to almost completion.
The last component being destruction stopped,
just shorter that had I pounced across the table and hurt one of them or had the
Nighthawk drawn his gun and shot one of us. You know,
that that would have been the destruction. Um, fortunately that did not happen.
We did see that that whole chain unravel to completion
three years ago on
August 12th, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Okay. Which is like two hours from my house on August 12th,
2017 and Charlottesville, Virginia.
There was a lot of ignorance in Charlottesville.
There was a lot of fear in Charlottesville.
There was a lot of hatred in Charlottesville.
And what did it culminate in? It culminated in destruction.
When a white supremacist got inside his vehicle and drove full force
into a crowd of counter protestors, trying to murder them.
He succeeded in injuring 20 and a and murdering a young lady
named Heather Hyer. Um, so that,
that whole chain is there. If you want to solve this problem of racism,
we need to stop focusing on the symptoms.
Don't worry about the fear. Don't worry about the hatred. Those,
those are just symptoms. Let's I putting a bandaid on cancer.
You got to go down to the bone and treat it at its source.
The source of all this is ignorance. Ignorance can be cured.
The cure for ignorance is called education.
So you fix the ignorance.
There's nothing to fear because you fear what you don't know when you cure the
ignorance. You know, something, there's nothing to fear.
If there's nothing to fear, then there's nothing to hate.
If there's something to hate, there's nothing to destroy.
So we need to focus on the ignorance and we address it with exposure and
education and conversation.
We spend way too much time in this country talking about the other
person, talking at the other person, talking past the other person.
Why not just spend a little bit of time talking with the other person.